What word in the English language is always spelled incorrectly? If long and difficult words come to mind, take another guess. Any ideas? The answer is the word “incorrectly” itself! Although this may seem to be just a nonsense question, there is much more to it than meets the eye. The way most people approach this question shows that they tend to think “inside the box,” which means thinking in a traditional way. Sometimes, however, this doesn’t help you solve challenging problems. Try stepping outside your imaginary box and solve problems in a way you’ve never thought about before. Let your creativity fly.

Going beyond what you are used to can be the first step in becoming creative. Here is question number one. A great golfer can only successfully hit the ball 3, 5, 7, or 11 yards. On the final hole of the game, he’s on his last shot. Now, he has to make a 20-yard swing. If the ball doesn’t directly go in, it will roll past the hole. What is the lowest number of swings that it would take for him to successfully put the ball in the hole? Here’s a clue. What about thinking outside the concept of the golfer hitting in a straight direction—he can hit diagonally, as well. Did you get the answer? Is your answer four times? Actually, by swinging two times for 11 yards in a diagonal direction, the golfer could successfully finish the game!

Are you ready for the next question? One day, a farmer challenged an engineer, a physicist, and a mathematician to a game in which the person who fenced off the largest area with the smallest amount of wire would win. It seemed that everyone had his or her own way of thinking. The engineer made a large circle with her wire. The physicist made a long fence, using less wire than the engineer’s. He said that the fence could be an infinitely long straight line and would fence in half of the earth. Finally, the mathematician laughed at the other two and presented her idea to the farmer. Quite surprised, the farmer announced that the mathematician was the winner. What was the mathematician’s idea?

The mathematician had made a tiny fence around herself and said, “I fenced off the entire world except for this little piece of land that I’m standing on.” None of the other challengers had expected her to say this because they had only focused on what was inside the fence and not the other way around.

You might remember the story of the egg of Columbus. People told Columbus that his discovery of the New World was not a big deal. So he asked them to do the very simple task of making an egg stand upright. After a while, everyone gave up. Clearly making his point, Columbus got the egg to stand on its end by tapping it on the table. When something like this is shown to you, it seems to be easy at first glance. However, the hard part is to be the first to think beyond what you are used to. By thinking in a different way, you will find yourself at a whole new level of creativity. 

It is also helpful to step out of your comfort zone and look beyond what you can see. In other words, use your imagination! Your final brain game begins with a romantic story. 

There once lived a rich king. Loving his wife so much, he wanted to be with her forever. One day, he asked an artist to paint a painting of himself and the queen. The painting the artist drew, “A Beautiful Queen,” is pictured above. Here is your question: where is the queen? You’ll need to use your creativity to see her! 

It is not until you divide the portrait into four squares that you can solve the question. To find the queen, you have to turn the squares upside down or switch their places. Now, do you see the queen’s beautiful outline? Neither looking closely at the king nor staring at the yellow background can help you answer the question. However, by using your imagination, you can see a lady in the portrait.

Solving this problem requires imagination. Imagination is the ability to make a mental picture of something in your mind. What’s so interesting about this ability, however, is that it is not limited only to seeing images in your head. It can include all the five senses and feelings—so going well beyond what can be seen. Training your imagination to combine all the five senses and emotions will help you to strengthen your creativity.

Did you enjoy pumping up your brain with these brain games? Thinking outside the box might seem difficult at first. However, it gets easier as you try to break the boundaries of your old thinking patterns. When you face a problem, don’t give up too quickly. Open your mind and let your creativity work for you!