Jinho invited me to his magic show the other day. He performed wonderful card tricks in front of a huge audience. I am envious of him as he has a plan for his future dream of becoming a professional magician. He watches magic performance shows almost every day and keeps practicing magic tricks until he can perform them perfectly. He has set his mind on studying psychology in college as magic basically deals with people’s minds. I wish I had a plan for my future.
 Why don’t you visit the career development office? You can get some important information from the office. Here’s what I received from them.

To make the right career choice, you have to learn about yourself first. Your values, interests, and personality will make some careers more suitable for you and others less appropriate. You can use self-assessment tests, often called career tests, to better understand yourself. Free career tests are available at our office. If the career test results are not clear and don’t solve the problem, don’t give up. A hobby you really enjoy can be an important part of choosing a career.

Now, you should make a list of occupations based on your self-assessment test results. For each job on your list, you should do some careful research in order to learn about the occupation’s educational requirements, outlook, and earnings potential. After researching, you can eliminate careers in which you are no longer interested. At this point you may only have two or three occupations left on your list. You now have to gather more in-depth information from people who have first-hand knowledge. You should identify who they are and conduct interviews with them or ask them for a job-shadowing opportunity.

If you are still not sure, don’t worry. Get yourself involved in various activities that you enjoy and do your best today. Your best possible future will unfold when you make today the best it can be.

STEP 1 Take a career test
STEP 2 Make a list of jobs
STEP 3 Get information about the jobs
STEP 4 Narrow down the list
STEP 5 Learn more about the jobs

I am a music lover, so yesterday I job-shadowed my uncle who is a music producer at X-Music. I left home very excited. Not only was I getting the day off of school, but I was also getting a chance to see in person how a music album is made. 

The studio was full of the latest equipment, whose size and complexity amazed me. My uncle gave me a short explanation of the equipment. He also explained what needs to be done to create an album, from planning the album to arranging, recording, and editing the music. More than half of what he said sounded like a foreign language to me.

We headed to the recording booth, where two singers were recording music for their rock band. Outside of the booth, the composer and a technician were waiting for us. My uncle sat down in the middle next to the composer when the recording started. It didn’t take long, however, until it was stopped by my uncle, then by the composer and the technician. They didn’t like this or that about the music and had the singers repeat the same line again and again, all of which sounded perfect to me. When everyone got exhausted, my uncle cheered them up with occasional funny stories. It took a whole day to finish one song!

My day at X-Music helped me realize that love of music is not the only thing required to become a music producer: patience, leadership, and communication skills on top of a good ear for music are important skills to learn, too. I’ll have to come up with a plan to develop these skills.