Wide pants, a striped shirt, a baseball cap: walk down the street and you’ll see what’s in fashion. Teens, like adults, tend to follow popular trends. That’s fine if you’re happy with the current style, but you can also create your own style if you’re not. Think of Steve Jobs, and a figure of a man wearing a black shirt and blue jeans might pop into your head. Likewise, you can showcase your own charm and individuality with your own unique style, which can become a part of your personal image: a signature style. Here are some tips from three teenage fashion leaders on how to experiment and find your own style.

What is your favorite color? Do you often wear fashion items in that color? As for me, my favorite color is green, but I felt it did not go well with my skin tone, so I used to avoid wearing it. One day, I realized that green has many shades, so I experimented with various shades of green and eventually, I found that a deep green helps me look great. If you like a certain color, you can try various shades like I did, and find one that suits you.

Once you decide on a color, you may discover the color wheel useful to find other colors that go well together. 

There are three simple ways to use the color wheel: combining analogous colors, choosing complementary colors, and mixing together analogous and complementary colors.

① Analogous colors
Pick one color on the color wheel, skip one, and choose the next one.
② Complementary colors
Select two colors on opposite sides of the color wheel.
③ Split complementary colors
Choose two analogous colors and the complementary color of the one that is found between them.

Combining analogous colors is one of the easiest ways of matching colors that will give you an elegant look, for example, a yellow shirt on top of green pants. Choosing complementary colors, like wearing a green skirt with red shoes, creates a bold impression. Choosing a mixture of analogous and complementary colors together, called split complementary colors, can be tricky but results in a calmer look than a combination of complementary colors. Unless your signature style is to wear colors that clash, using the color wheel will help you choose colors that are natural and pleasing to the eye.

I spend a lot of time at school in my uniform, so I don’t pay too much attention to what I wear. But there is one thing I often wear outside of school: a black striped shirt. It’s very casual with a simple design. I like to wear it under a denim shirt, a leather jacket, or a cardigan. Putting on clothes in layers like this keeps my style fresh even though I don't have a lot of clothes. Mixing and matching clothes is a lot of fun! My point is: If you have a favorite fashion item, and it goes well with your other clothes, you can create a new outfit every single day.

One of the simplest ways to develop your own style is to pay attention to accessories like shoes, hats, glasses, or watches. I spend a lot of time choosing my eye glasses because they can be an important part of my look. When I choose frames, I think of my face shape. Since my face is rather angular, I usually choose round frames. If your face is round, however, you may look better in angular or square frames. Here's another important tip. People tend to make purchasing decisions about frames in terms of material or color, but not many think about their eyebrows. Eyebrows can be so expressive, and covering them with your frames may hide the feelings you express, eventually making you look strict.
