Colors are everywhere: from our favorite shoes and clothes to the wonders of nature and outer space. Colors have existed ever since the universe began, and they play an important part in daily life. But how much do you really know about colors? Here are some interesting facts about colors and how they affect our lives.

It’s said that women have a more advanced ability to see red and orange colors than men. This means that women are good at identifying the many variations of the color red, while men may only see light red and dark red. ere is a natural reason why men can’t see what is so obvious to women.
It is generally known that there is a gene that allows people to perceive the color red. Interestingly, the gene is found only in the X chromosome and maintains a lot more variations than other genes. Because women have two X chromosomes, they can perceive more variations in the red-orange color spectrum than men, who have only one X chromosome. Give yourself a little test. How many shades of red do you see in the image below?

Have a seat and try some delicious spaghetti! You are free to choose either the spaghetti on the blue plate or the spaghetti on the red plate. Which one would you like to try? You may be surprised to know that the color blue can help you lose weight. It sounds like nonsense, but time and time again it’s been demonstrated that the color blue naturally suppresses your appetite. Blue food is actually highly unusual in nature. There are no leafy blue vegetables or blue meats. That may be why we don’t have an automatic appetite response to blue. Another interesting fact is that in the past, blue (together with purple and black) was a “color warning sign” of potentially poisonous food. Thus, almost by instinct, we tend to avoid food that is blue.

What color do you think looks better for girls, pink or blue? Many of you would answer pink almost automatically. But did you know that this was not the case a long time ago? During the early 20th century, it was generally accepted that pink was for boys and blue for girls. People thought that pink was a more decisive and stronger color and more suitable for boys, while blue was more delicate and prettier, thus more proper for girls. It was when the women’s liberation movement arrived that mothers began thinking differently. They wanted their daughters to have more options and feel freer to take an active part in society. So they started dressing their girls in pink.

What would life be like without colors? Don’t you think it would become emotionless and lifeless? Truly, colors are everywhere and they affect the way we live and think.
