There are jobs nowadays that didn’t exist in the early 1990s, like social media manager and app developer. Some of them are quite unique and may even seem strange to you. Below are a handful of these unusual jobs. Have a look at them and see how some people make a peculiar living.

Dog owners who take a small bite of their pet’s dog food, out of curiosity, are considered normal. But can you imagine a person who eats dog food for a living? Professional dog food tasters are such people. Dog food tasters, as their name suggests, taste dog food to make sure it meets a premium brand’s quality standards. Their job is to evaluate its quality in terms of taste, as well as smell, and write reports about it. They also try to think up new ideas on how to make quality food that dogs would really like. Don’t worry. Most dog food tasters spit out the dog food instead of swallowing it.

An online video content tagger’s job is to “tag” movies and TV programs by assigning them to a genre. They work for a media company, where they watch movies and TV series before they are made available to consumers. Spending hours getting to see the wonderful world of entertainment in a leisurely environment sounds ideal. However, they don’t get to decide what they get to watch. In fact, they watch what their company gives them, and their personal preferences are not taken into account. Nevertheless, as serious movie lovers, they rarely complain about their work environment.

Who cleans those vast, wide IMAX screens? Keep in mind that those screens are eight stories high. Therefore, it definitely needs an expert who has the specialized, professional skill to get the job done right. The enormous screens are really expensive, so they have to be treated with great care. A very long pole with a soft wool head (usually made of lamb’s wool) at the end is used to sweep across the screen in even rows, horizontally and vertically. It usually takes eight hours to finish cleaning one IMAX screen. IMAX screen cleaners usually start work at 2 AM. Clearly, they have to get used to an unusual work schedule.

Have you ever been on an airplane with a crying baby on board? Although annoying, it’s understandable that babies cry because an airplane flight could be an unfamiliar experience for them. Many airlines have realized this problem, and have decided to help troubled parents of those children as well as other passengers aboard the flight. The airlines have started offering “nannies” on board. Parents can hire the nannies to amuse young children and care for infants, keeping them calm and giving them all the attention they need to remain happy during the flight. Many of these “flying nannies” (though not all) are required to have certification and training in child psychology and behavior. They also need special training in activities necessary to keep children occupied and well behaved.

With technology ever advancing, who knows what new and, yes, more unusual jobs are likely to be in the not-so-distant future!

How can you find a job which you enjoy? One way is to find a job that is in tune with your interests. Most likely, you fall into one of three categories: people who prefer to work either with ideas, people, or things. As you read the following, think about which category you fall into.

You are a curious and independent person interested in exploring new ideas and using your creativity. People who prefer to focus on ideas may thrive on the analytic challenges of fields such as science or medicine, or artistic pursuits such as writing or visual design.

You are a sociable and friendly person who likes to use your communication skills to guide and help others. Those who prefer to focus on people often find satisfaction in helping occupations such as counseling or teaching, or in persuasive professions such as politics or sales.

You are an orderly and practical person who enjoys working with your hands and prefers clearly defined tasks. People who prefer to focus on things may be content working with their hands as a mechanic, farmer, or computer programmer, or using their math abilities as a bookkeeper or banker.

Trying to understand what you prefer to work with is the very first step in finding the best job for you. If you like what you do, it's more likely that you'll be happier and more successful at work.