During the summer break, as an exchange student, I visited my school’s sister school in Beijing, China.

I searched the Internet to collect as much information as possible to get to know about the country. I realized it had become very modernized. I also found out that the meanings of colors and numbers are important in Chinese culture. I practiced greetings in Chinese, hoping that I’d be able to communicate with local people when I first got to China.

As soon as I arrived in Beijing, I met my host family. The family had a mother, father, and daughter. Wei, the daughter, was also my classmate. Wei’s family welcomed me with big smiles. Practicing Chinese before the trip paid off . A couple of my greetings in Chinese worked! In Wei’s room there were a lot of pictures of various Korean singers hung all over the walls. She told me that many of her friends were interested in Korean pop culture. On the one hand, I was so proud of Korean culture, but on the other hand, I felt bad that I did not know much about Chinese culture. Wei’s parents cooked a delicious meal. Wei’s family ate with long chopsticks and rarely used spoons while eating rice.

In class, we had to make a traditional Chinese mask for a Chinese opera. I made a white mask because white expresses the pure and innocent spirit of Korean people. But for Chinese people, white can be considered a negative color. For them, white is associated with death. A classmate of mine used red, which symbolizes good fortune and joy in China. I realized that colors have different meanings in China and Korea.

After school, Wei’s family took me to a restaurant nearby. According to Wei, it is very common in China to eat out. Though the smell of the spices in the restaurant was unusual to me, I quite enjoyed the food. The amount was huge. The table was very big and round, and spun around at the center, which made it easy to share the dishes. I was told that customers must take any left over food with them.
 
After the meal, we walked along the main street. Most of the signs on the stores were red. Food stands sold very interesting food such as fried bugs. I took a bite of a bug, and surprisingly the taste was pretty good. I also bought a bottle of cola. It was 888 ml, which was quite a strange quantity to me. The number 8 has long been regarded as the luckiest number in Chinese culture because the sound of it is linked to the meaning of making a fortune.

In China, I was able to learn a lot about Chinese culture and history. I was impressed when I visited the Great Wall of China, the Summer Palace, and the Forbidden City. Of all the things I did, however, the homestay gave me the best chance to experience real Chinese culture. I will never forget memories from my stay in China.


