Have you ever wondered how singers and poets express so much with so few words? Consider, for example, the lyrics below. They are from a famous song by the American group, Gym Class Heroes.

My heart's a stereo. It beats for you, so listen close. Hear my thoughts in every note. Make me your radio, and turn me up when you feel low.

The lyricist wishes that his heart were a stereo and that he himself were a radio. Everybody knows that these wishes cannot come true. However, the lyrics sound natural, don't they? The comparisons are made to convey feelings of love in a more concise but memorable way. In other words, the metaphors of “a stereo” and “a radio” are used to express the singer's intense feelings using as few words as possible.

A metaphor is a figure of speech in which a comparison is made between two different things. The word metaphor itself comes from a Greek word meaning “to carry across.” Metaphors carry meaning from one word, image, or idea to another. In the “stereo” metaphor, for example, the stereo's ability to recreate the beat of music is compared to the heartbeat of someone in love. 

Some people think of metaphors as just the sweet stuff of songs and poems. In fact, however, we use metaphors every day. They are baked right into our language. Dr. Gregory House from the TV series House M.D. says metaphorically, "I'm a night owl. Wilson's an early bird." A night owl is someone who loves working late at night, whereas an early bird is someone who loves working in the morning.

There are thousands of metaphors native speakers of English use in everyday situations. You may not know as many as native speakers. Plus, you may find some of them difficult to understand. Consider the examples below.

Life is a roller coaster. The slide on the playground was a hot stove. Her angry words were bullets to him. My dad always says to me, “You're the apple of my eye.”

Think carefully about the comparisons made and what you already know about the world. Then you may be able to understand what the metaphors mean. If you know that a roller coaster goes up and down, you can guess that life also has lots of ups and downs. However, you may not always be able to guess correctly. For instance, you may fail to see what “the apple of my eye” means even though you understand all the words that make up the metaphor.

Learners of English should not despair. Many metaphors are almost universal. In many cultures, for example, life is often compared to a journey. Since life is regarded as a purposeful journey, we think of it as having departures, paths, and destinations. The young can “get off to a good start” in life. The aged regard themselves as being “at the end of the road.” In an old Korean popular song, the lyrics begin with, “Life is a wanderer's path. Where did I come from? Where am I going?” This clearly shows that life as a journey is not a metaphor unique to English.

Of course, there are cultural differences in metaphors. These can pose a learning problem for you. Koreans call something easy “cold gruel” whereas native speakers of English call it “a piece of cake.” An old person with an old way of thinking may be called “a dinosaur” in English. The same word can mean “a very big person” in Korean. If you call a man “a chicken” in America, he will be extremely upset because it means “a coward.” On the other hand, a chicken may refer to an inexperienced person in Korean.

In As You Like It William Shakespeare says, “All the world's a stage, and all the men and women merely players.” We cannot conquer the stage full of metaphors, but we do not need to have stage fright. We can become better players if we are ready to learn as much as we can.

Language makes communication possible because its users share the same code. This does not mean, however, that the code is exactly the same for everyone. One user is different from another. Language users themselves may not be aware of it, but differences still exist. Some experts are interested in studying these differences. They analyze the language used by different individuals. This analysis is possible because every person shows unique language characteristics. 

One person might use a certain word or phrase very often or have a different writing style from another person. In some cases, this personal language is so unique that experts can identify the writer of documents within a group of suspects. In a criminal investigation, the police can turn to these experts to analyze documents. Their analysis often leads to the arrest of the guilty suspect.